Dependabot Step by Step Guide (#81)
packagist/private-packagist-docs: docs/dependabot-for-private-packagist.md

# Set up Dependabot with Private Packagist
##

[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide) informs you about vulnerabilities in the dependencies that you use in your repository and can automatically raise pull requests to keep your dependencies up-to-date.  

> This guide explains how to configure and set up Dependabot if you want to use it for packages hosted on [Private Packagist](https://packagist.com) step by step.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to configure and set up Dependabot if you want to use it with [Private Packagist](https://packagist.com).
```

## Enable Dependabot in GitHub

Start in your GitHub repository and go to “Settings”. In the “Security” section of the sidebar go to “Code security and analysis”, where you can enable Dependabot. In the process, you will create a dependabot.yaml [as shown as below](#dependabotyaml). Follow [this guide on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide#enabling-dependabot-for-your-repository) for the complete steps to enable Dependabot.

![enable dependabot](/Resources/public/img/docs/articles/dependabot-secret.png)

When you click on configure, the dependabot.yaml will be created for you in the .github folder.

### dependabot.yaml

A minimal Dependabot config file would look like this:

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "composer"
    directory: "/"
    registries:
      - private_packagist
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
registries:
  private_packagist:
    type: composer-repository
    url: https://repo.packagist.com/acme/
    username: token
    password: ${{secrets.PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_PASSWORD}}
```

> Replace the Composer URL `https://repo.packagist.com/acme/` with your own organization's Composer URL on packagist.com. In the example, the repository URL is for the organization on Private Packagist Cloud with the name `acme`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the Composer URL `https://repo.packagist.com/acme/` with your organization's Composer URL on packagist.com. In the example, the repository URL is for the organization on Private Packagist Cloud with the name `acme`.
```

> To grant Dependabot access to the packages on Private Packagist, you need to provide the secret `PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_PASSWORD` in your GitHub repository. In Settings under the section “Security,” there is “Secrets and Variables” for Dependabot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To grant Dependabot access to the packages on Private Packagist, you need to provide the secret `PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_PASSWORD` in your GitHub repository. In Settings, under the section “Security,” there is “Secrets and Variables” for Dependabot.
```

![Dependabot Secrets](/Resources/public/img/docs/articles/dependabot-secret.png)

> Create a Team Authentication Token under “Settings” and “Authentication Tokens” on Private Packagist. Copy the secret into the GitHub form.

Reviewer: This should probably explain if this is update or read-only

Author: ```suggestion
Create a Team Authentication Token under “Settings” and “Authentication Tokens” on Private Packagist with Update Access. Copy the secret into the GitHub form.
```

Author: like this?

Reviewer: Sounds good!

## Troubleshooting

> To check if Dependabot is able to access your packages, you need to navigate to “Insights”, then “Dependency Graph” and then activate the tab “Dependabot”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if Dependabot is able to access your packages, navigate to “Insights”, then “Dependency Graph” and then activate the tab “Dependabot”.
```

# Set up Dependabot with Private Packagist
##

[Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide) informs you about vulnerabilities in the dependencies that you use in your repository and can automatically raise pull requests to keep your dependencies up-to-date.  

This guide explains how to configure and set up Dependabot if you want to use it with [Private Packagist](https://packagist.com).

## Enable Dependabot in GitHub

> Start in your GitHub repository and go to “Settings”. In the “Security” section of the sidebar go to “Code security and analysis”, where you can enable Dependabot. In the process, you will create a dependabot.yaml [as shown as below](#dependabotyaml). Follow [this guide on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide#enabling-dependabot-for-your-repository) for the complete steps to enable Dependabot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start in your GitHub repository and go to “Settings”. In the “Security” section of the sidebar go to “Code security and analysis”, where you can enable Dependabot. In this process, you will create a dependabot.yaml [as shown as below](#dependabotyaml). Follow [this guide on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/dependabot-quickstart-guide#enabling-dependabot-for-your-repository) for the complete steps to enable Dependabot.
```

![enable dependabot](/Resources/public/img/docs/articles/dependabot-secret.png)

When you click on configure, the dependabot.yaml will be created for you in the .github folder.

### dependabot.yaml

A minimal Dependabot config file would look like this:

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "composer"
    directory: "/"
    registries:
      - private_packagist
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
registries:
  private_packagist:
    type: composer-repository
    url: https://repo.packagist.com/acme/
    username: token

>     password: ${{secrets.PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_PASSWORD}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    password: ${{secrets.PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_AUTH_TOKEN}}
```

Reviewer 2: Oh just realized this would mean you'd have to retake the screenshots that show this name :/ I think password is suboptimal here, but I guess I can live with it if you don't want to do the screenshots again XD

Author: No problem :)

```

> Replace the Composer URL `https://repo.packagist.com/acme/` with your organization's Composer URL on packagist.com. In the example, the repository URL is for the organization on Private Packagist Cloud with the name `acme`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace the Composer URL `https://repo.packagist.com/acme/` with your organization's Composer URL on packagist.com. The example URL is for the organization named `acme`.
```

> To grant Dependabot access to the packages on Private Packagist, you need to provide the secret `PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_PASSWORD` in your GitHub repository. In Settings, under the section “Security,” there is “Secrets and Variables” for Dependabot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To grant Dependabot access to the packages on Private Packagist, you need to provide the secret `PRIVATE_PACKAGIST_AUTH_TOKEN` to your GitHub repository. In Settings, under the section “Security,” there is a “Secrets and Variables” page for Dependabot.
```

![Dependabot Secrets](/Resources/public/img/docs/articles/dependabot-secret.png)

> Create a Team Authentication Token under “Settings” and “Authentication Tokens” on Private Packagist with update access. Copy the secret into the GitHub form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, on Private Packagist, create an authentication token with update access under “Settings” and “Authentication Tokens”. Copy the secret token into the GitHub form.
```

## Troubleshooting

> To check if Dependabot is able to access your packages, navigate to “Insights”, then “Dependency Graph” and then activate the tab “Dependabot”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check if Dependabot is able to access your packages, navigate to “Insights” on your GitHub repository, then “Dependency Graph” and then activate the tab “Dependabot”.
```
